What is Dianabol?
Dianabol has perhaps the most interesting origin of all steroidal compounds.
It was not created for therapeutic use.
Instead, the sole purpose was to give US athletes an edge over their soviet counterparts who were on a rampage in the Olympics, courtesy their affinity towards exogenous Testosterone.
Dr. John Ziegler, an American researcher created an altered form of test that would act faster and was less androgenic, which would prevent some of the undesirable side effects.
Dianabol (Dbol) or Methandrostenolone was born and the world was never the same again.
Dbol is a Testosterone molecule with two structural alterations (C17-AA) that significantly increase its anabolic nature while making it less androgenic than testosterone.
The anabolic rating is close to 300 while the androgenic rating is 60.
It is also one of the fastest acting steroids of all times.
Just like Winstrol, it is available for oral ingestion and as an injectable.
But it is the oral version that’s more popular.
Coming back to the origin of Dianabol, US athletes hit the soviets right out of the park when they were on Dbol.
Dosage and Half-life
 Dianabol  has one of the shortest half-lives among steroidal drugs. It’s 3-5 hours.
So, you will have to split your daily dose into multiple timed doses throughout the day.
Results are highly dose specific.
Most average gym goers can get great results with 15mg/day split into three doses.
If you can tolerate 15mg/day without too many side effects, you can up that to 25mg/day.
Bodybuilders and seasoned athletes can tolerate up to 50mg/day with manageable side effects. But we wouldn’t recommend that dose unless you have used Dianabol before.
Professional bodybuilders might use up to 100mg/day. But you will definitely experience side effects at that dose.
A typical Dianabol cycle lasts up to 12-weeks. But most users use it during the beginning of a cycle as a kick starter to trigger fast mass gain while the injectable steroids kick in.
Dianabol and Results: What to expect
The big draw of Dianabol is the speed at which it kicks in.
Most users start to feel the effects in the first week itself. By week 2, you are looking fuller, lifting harder and feeling better than you ever did.
Imagine something that’s three times more anabolic than testosterone kicking in at that pace.
The results are pretty dramatic.
Mass gain:
Dianabol is one of the most commonly used anabolic compounds in a mass-gaining cycle. With a calorie surplus diet and some hard lifting, you can easily gain up to 20 lbs. in a 4-week cycle. However, any muscle mass gained at that pace will have some amount of water weight which you may lose once you go off cycle. Hence, it is recommended that you have a strong foundation to begin with before you use Dbol.
Strength gain:
Dianabol will make you strong and before you even realize, you will be lifting the heaviest weights that you have ever touched. Many athletes used Dbol purely for the added strength. But the rapid muscle gains were a deterrent for some. If you don’t care a hoot about the increased mass, then Dianabol is one of the best steroids for strength gains.
It is rarely used in a cutting cycle despite being a potent mass gainer. That’s because of the water weight and the fullness that it gives which can be detrimental to anyone looking for a dry, vascular look.
Dbol and Side Effects
Dianabol is one of the most powerful steroids of all times. And with great power comes the risk of side effects.
At low doses, Dianabol will only produce mild side effects that can easily be managed or countered.
But at performance enhancing doses (25-35 mg/day), it might produce some nasty side effects.
	Gynecomastia: Didn’t want to hear that, did you? Dianabol can cause gyno and in many users, it almost happens before they can realize. That’s partly because unlike other steroids which get aromatized into estradiol, Dianabol will aromatize into Methylestradiol, a more powerful form of the hormone.
	High Blood Pressure: Dianabol will cause water retention and anything that retains water in the body can lead to high blood pressure. If you have hypertension to begin with, then you’d have to give Dbol a miss.
	Cholesterol: Dianabol is taxing on your lipid levels. To add to it, Aromatase Inhibitors like Letrozole are added to the cycle to prevent aromatization and estrogenic side effects. This combination can be severely detrimental to your cholesterol levels. Not only can it increase LDL levels, it can also decrease HDL levels. It is highly recommended that you monitor your cholesterol levels while using Dbol.
	Suppression: Dianabol will shut you down. And you will need a full-fledged PCT to restore your body’s natural testosterone production. By the time your body’s natural testosterone is restored, you might lose all the gains you made during the cycle. That’s why Dbol is always stacked with Testosterone.
	Hepatotoxic: Like most orals, Dianabol can make your liver values go haywire. But its hepatotoxicity is not as severe as it is touted to be. It can be controlled with proper supplementation.
Standalone or in a stack?
While Dianabol only cycles were common in the heydays of bodybuilding, it is rarely used today.
Most users would stack it with an injectable, like testosterone or use it as a kick starter during the first few weeks of the cycle.

http://www.dianaboluk.co.uk/
